[Back](/docs/pandoc.md)


<!-- toc orderedList:0 -->

* [Bibliographies and Citations](#bibliographies-and-citations)
	* [Bibliographies](#bibliographies)
		* [Specifying a Bibliography](#specifying-a-bibliography)
		* [Inline References](#inline-references)
		* [Bibliography Placement](#bibliography-placement)
	* [Citations](#citations)
		* [Citation Syntax](#citation-syntax)
		* [Unused References (nocite)](#unused-references-nocite)
		* [Citation Styles](#citation-styles)
		* [Citations for PDF Output](#citations-for-pdf-output)

<!-- tocstop -->


# Bibliographies and Citations
## Bibliographies
### Specifying a Bibliography
[Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#citations) can automatically generate citations and a bibliography in a number of styles. In order to use this feature, you will need to specify a bibliography file using the `bibliography` metadata field in a YAML metadata section. For example:  
```yaml
---
title: "Sample Document"
output: pdf_document
bibliography: bibliography.bib
---
```   

If you are including multiple bibliography files, you can then define like this:  
```yaml
---
bibliography: [ bibliography1.bib, bibliography2.bib ]
---
```

The bibliography may have any of these formats:  

| Format | File extension  |
|---|---|
| BibLaTeX	| .bib |  
| BibTeX	| .bibtex |  
| Copac	| .copac |  
| CSL JSON	| .json |  
| CSL YAML	| .yaml |  
| EndNote	| .enl |  
| EndNote XML	| .xml |  
| ISI	| .wos |  
| MEDLINE	| .medline |  
| MODS	| .mods |  
| RIS	| .ris |  

### Inline References
Alternatively you can use a `references` field in the document’s YAML metadata. This should include an array of YAML-encoded references, for example:
```yaml
---
references:
- id: fenner2012a
  title: One-click science marketing
  author:
  - family: Fenner
    given: Martin
  container-title: Nature Materials
  volume: 11
  URL: 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat3283'
  DOI: 10.1038/nmat3283
  issue: 4
  publisher: Nature Publishing Group
  page: 261-263
  type: article-journal
  issued:
    year: 2012
    month: 3
---
```

### Bibliography Placement
Bibliographies will be placed at the end of the document. Normally, you will want to end your document with an appropriate header:
```markdown
last paragraph...

# References
```  
The bibliography will be inserted after this header.


## Citations  
### Citation Syntax
Citations go inside square brackets and are separated by semicolons. Each citation must have a key, composed of ‘@’ + the citation identifier from the database, and may optionally have a prefix, a locator, and a suffix. Here are some examples:  
```
Blah blah [see @doe99, pp. 33-35; also @smith04, ch. 1].

Blah blah [@doe99, pp. 33-35, 38-39 and *passim*].

Blah blah [@smith04; @doe99].
```  

A minus sign `(-)` before the `@` will suppress mention of the author in the citation. This can be useful when the author is already mentioned in the text:  
```
Smith says blah [-@smith04].
```  
You can also write an in-text citation, as follows:
```
@smith04 says blah.

@smith04 [p. 33] says blah.
```
### Unused References (nocite)
If you want to include items in the bibliography without actually citing them in the body text, you can define a dummy `nocite` metadata field and put the citations there:
```
---
nocite: |
  @item1, @item2
...

@item3
```
In this example, the document will contain a citation for `item3` only, but the bibliography will contain entries for `item1`, `item2`, and `item3`.

### Citation Styles
By default, pandoc will use a Chicago author-date format for citations and references. To use another style, you will need to specify a CSL 1.0 style file in the `csl` metadata field. For example:   

```yaml  
---
title: "Sample Document"
output: html_document
bibliography: bibliography.bib
csl: biomed-central.csl
---
```
A primer on creating and modifying CSL styles can be found [here](http://citationstyles.org/downloads/primer.html). A repository of CSL styles can be found [here](https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles). See also http://zotero.org/styles for easy browsing.

### Citations for PDF Output
By default, citations are generated by the utility pandoc-citeproc, and it works for all output formats. When the output is LaTeX/PDF, you can also use LaTeX packages (e.g. natbib) to generate citations; see [PDF documents](./pdf.md) for details.
