[Back](/docs/pandoc.md)

<!-- toc orderedList:0 -->

* [HTML Document](#html-document)
	* [Overview](#overview)
	* [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
		* [Floating TOC](#floating-toc)
	* [Document Dependencies](#document-dependencies)

<!-- tocstop -->

# HTML Document
## Overview
To create an HTML document, you need to specify the `html_document` output format in the front-matter of your document:  
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
author: John Doe
date: March 22, 2005
output: html_document
---
```

## Table of Contents
You can add a table of contents using the `toc` option and specify the depth of headers that it applies to using the `toc_depth` option. For example:
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  html_document:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 2
---
```  
If the table of contents depth isn’t explicitly specified then it defaults to 3 (meaning that all level 1, 2, and 3 headers will be included in the table of contents).  

*Attention:* this TOC is different from the `<!-- toc -->` generated by **Markdown Preview Enhanced**.  

### Floating TOC  
You can specify the `toc_float` option to float the table of contents to the left of the main document content. The floating table of contents will always be visible even when the document is scrolled. For example:
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  html_document:
    toc: true
    toc_float: true
---
```  
You may optionally specify a list of options for the toc_float parameter which control it’s behavior. Options include:  
* `collapsed` (defaults to `TRUE`) controls whether the table of contents appers with only the top-level (e.g. H2) headers. When collapsed the table of contents is automatically expanded inline when necessary.
* `smooth_scroll` (defaults to `TRUE`) controls whether page scrolls are animated when table of contents items are navigated to via mouse clicks.  

For example:  
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  html_document:
    toc: true
    toc_float:
      collapsed: false
      smooth_scroll: false
---
```

## Document Dependencies
By default `advanced document export` produces standalone HTML files with no external dependencies, using data: URIs to incorporate the contents of linked scripts, stylesheets, images, and videos. This means you can share or publish the file just like you share Office documents or PDFs. If you’d rather have keep depenencies in external files you can specify `self_contained: false`. For example:  
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  html_document:
    self_contained: false
---
```
