[Back](/docs/pandoc.md)

<!-- toc orderedList:0 -->

* [RTF Document](#rtf-document)
	* [Overview](#overview)
	* [Export Path](#export-path)
	* [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
	* [Pandoc Arguments](#pandoc-arguments)
	* [Shared Options](#shared-options)

<!-- tocstop -->

# RTF Document
## Overview
To create an RTF document from R Markdown you specify the `rtf_document` output format in the front-matter of your document:
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
author: John Doe
date: March 22, 2005
output: rtf_document
---
```

## Export Path  
You can define the document export path by specifying `path` option. For example:    

```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  rtf_document:
    path: /Exports/Habits.rtf
---
```   
If `path` is not defined, then document will be generated under the same directory.

## Table of Contents
You can add a table of contents using the `toc` option and specify the depth of headers that it applies to using the `toc_depth` option. For example:  
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  pdf_document:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 2
---
```
If the table of contents depth isn’t explicitly specified then it defaults to 3 (meaning that all level 1, 2, and 3 headers will be included in the table of contents).   

*Attention:* this TOC is different from the `<!-- toc -->` generated by **Markdown Preview Enhanced**.  


## Pandoc Arguments   
If there are pandoc features you want to use that lack equivalents in the YAML options described above you can still use them by passing custom `pandoc_args`. For example:  
```yaml
---
title: "Habits"
output:
  rtf_document:
    pandoc_args: [
      "--csl", "/var/csl/acs-nano.csl"
    ]
---
```

## Shared Options
If you want to specify a set of default options to be shared by multiple documents within a directory you can include a file named `_output.yaml` within the directory. Note that no YAML delimeters or enclosing output object are used in this file. For example:    

**_output.yaml**
```yaml
rtf_document:
  toc: true
```
All documents located in the same directory as `_output.yaml` will inherit it’s options. Options defined explicitly within documents will override those specified in the shared options file.
